MiniDebConf Portugal 2023

![a rooster of Barcelos surrounded by Debian's swirl: MiniDebConf Portugal's
logo](https://pt2023.mini.debconf.org/media/pages_files/miniDebConf_logo_chicken_swirl-twocolor3-plain-smaller.svg)

I've been a Debian user for a long time, but I've always sought (and felt the
lack of) some sort of impulse to be more involved with Debian. Part of it, I
suppose, was the lack of someone 'closer' (not necessarily, but also physically
close) following the same path, or pushing in the same direction...  Anyway,
once in a while I did find some opportunities to do something about it: in 2008
I helped organize [Tecnonov
2008](https://mindboosternoori.blogspot.com/2008/04/tecnonov-2008-tomorrow-fnac-coimbra.html)
where not only we had a Debian Developer talking about the project, we also had
a key-signing party (and I got my now expired key signed by the DD in
question). The year later, I went to Aveiro for [Debian Day PT
2009](https://www.debian.org/events/2009/0801-debianday-pt), but... well, that
was so long ago that the t-shirt I've got there has already been recycled!

It was thanks to [Ubucon Europe 2019](https://sintra2019.ubucon.org/) in Sintra
that I've learned for the first time that there was an ongoing attempt to being
DebianDay to Portugal... and finally, in 2023, a "local test" is being
organized, a [MiniDebConf in Lisbon](https://pt2023.mini.debconf.org/) that
will, hopefully, also serve as a step towards a future [DebConf in
Portugal](https://wiki.debian.org/DebConf/25).

I have to confess, the younger me of ten, or the even younger me of twenty
years ago would be a lot more excited with this, but still, it is finally
happening, so how could I not attend? So here I am: with time off taken from
work, hotel room reserved, ready for a week of Debian (and more generically
free software) along likeminded individuals. I've even decided to contribute
more actively and give [a talk and a
workshop](https://pt2023.mini.debconf.org/users/marado/)...

It starts already this sunday, and it lasts until thursday. See you there?


tags: debian, debianday, tecnonov, minidebconf, lisbon, aveiro, debconf, events, portugal, ubucon, talk, workshop, Free-Software, en
